# Passive gas siphon orbiting a gas giant.

[This stellar illustration](https://www.artstation.com/artwork/i-drink-your-milkshake)
of a mining station on a gas giant grabbed my attention.

Mining on other planets and space elevators are nothing new to science fiction
stories, but stories that include gas giant mining are few and far between. How
viable would it be to create a gas mine on a gas giant such as Jupiter?

Let's say humans have reached the extent of our solar system and are looking for
a good pitstop to refuel. For some reason conventional planetary mining for fuel
is not an option so the next best choice is atmospheric mining. Let's choose
Jupiter. It has a nice high [hydrogen
content](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atmospheric_mining#Exploration_for_atmospheric_mining)
for our
[hydrogen loving engines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_thermal_rocket).
For this example, we'll just ignore the [rings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rings_of_Jupiter).

## Bean Stock Mining

When a person spins around in place with their arms outstretched, they can feel
the blood pressure increase in their finger tips. Likewise, the gravitational
force on Jupiter's surface would be strong enough to keep the gas giant
together, but the tip of a sufficiently tall bean stock would feel a
counter-gravity force greater than the force holding pulling it towards the
planet. To start the gas flowing through the bean stock, it would need to be
pumped through to the point the gas influenced by a stronger centripetal force
outweighed the gas under the stronger gravitational force.

All that goes under the assumption the gas weight could be overcome by its own
pressure. I haven't done the math yet, but here's a quick diagram of the
problem:

_(Insert diagram)_

1. Gas under stronger counter-gravitational force
2. Gas under stronger gravitational force
3. Gas giant

~~Wait... I just remembered gases expand to fit the volume they are given.
Never-mind about this idea- it won't work.~~

Update: This could work! I'll write in a future blog post the solution to my vacuum problem.
